Normally when we order
chicken tikka masala, bing
(cash register chimes)
but we don't worry about it 'cause it's tastes good.
But you can have it possibly better
for this that is much cheaper.
(cash register chimes)
(upbeat electronic music)
(slots jingle)
(coins clink)
So I've been feeling
(gentle piano music)
this is gonna be a bit of a challenge,
because this is a heavy spice recipe,
and spices kind of jack
up the price of things.
(money sack thumps)
So not everybody has a spice on hands,
they gotta go buy one,
and then we're gonna factor in the whole bottle, ow.
So we're gonna have to delete spices
and somehow configure
and mechanize this
(equations bleep)
into a fully functioning robot of flavor.
I don't know why I'm using mechanization
and robotics to describe this,
but I know that we can do it.
We've never backed down from a challenge.
So with all that being said, let's make this, shall we?
This recipe so fast,
you might as well call it a got dang, but faster.
First, in a large bowl,
combine one cup, 240 grams
(cash register dings)
of full fat yogurt,
two teaspoons or six grams of kosher salt,
1 1/4 tablespoon
(cash register dings)
or 11 grams of garam masala.
Oh, it's a fancy spice, Josh, eh.
Look, it encapsulates all the spices you need,
'cause then you don't have to buy like 4, 5, 6,
however many spices you need.
(spices bleep)
One teaspoon or three grams of paprika,
five cloves of garlic, finely chopped,
two inch knob of fresh ginger, grated.
Mix all it together until thoroughly combined.
Then cut two pounds
(cash register dings)
or 900 grams of boneless and skinless chicken thighs.
Pause, look we all know chicken thighs are the
superior choice here, right?
(ethereal electronic music)
First off, it's cheaper than the breast.
Second off, yeah,
(upbeat electronic music)
sure, use breast.
But I'm sick of being overjoyed
with a delightfully flavorful sauce only to bite
into a piece
(Josh chomps)
of compressed wood sawdust
(wood scratches and jingles)
like overcooked chicken breast.
The thigh will save you from that.
So please use it
and enjoy the juicy tenderness and thank me later.
Anyway, mix all that together
and allow to sit for 10 minutes at room temp,
but ideally overnight in the fridge.
Now get yourself a large saute pan
or some sort of a large and deep skillet.
You could also use a small pot.
Look, this is the only cooking vessel you need to use here.
So you know, be kind of choosy, but it's fine.
Add just enough vegetable oil
(cash register dings)
to coat the bottom of the pan.
Heat over medium high until nearly smoking.
Then add all your chicken in batches
and sear for two to three minutes
per side so you get some nice browning.
Don't get all like, "Oh,
"gotta cook the chicken all the way through."
It's gonna get cooked later.
So once everything's seared, remove all your chicken.
Add a touch more oil if needed.
Lower the heat to medium.
Add a mix of one large yellow onion, sliced,
a 2" knob of ginger, thinly sliced,
three cloves of garlic,
(cash register dings)
also thinly sliced,
Seasoned lightly with salt
to draw that water out, it's gonna help it cook faster,
and saute for three to five minutes
or until all the vegetables are softened.
Then add in one teaspoon or three grams of paprika,
one teaspoon or three grams of cayenne powder,
one tablespoon or nine grams of garam masala,
two teaspoons or nine grams of granulated sugar,
and saute until so fragrant you can barely
just got dang help yourself.
Then add a 15 ounce
(cash register dings)
or 425 gram can of crushed tomatoes.
Stir that together and let it reduce
for five minutes.
(bubble pops)
And this next step is optional.
I don't wanna see you in the comments complaining, oh,
you don't have a blender.
Look, you'll literally be fine if you don't have one.
Just don't blend it anyway.
(text slaps)
Once reduced and all your vegetables are super soft,
pour all that into a blender and blend
on high speed until as smooth as physically possible.
Then place it back into the pan
or pot or whatever the hell you're using.
Bring it back to a simmer.
Reduce the heat to low.
Add all of your cooked chicken and simmer,
stirring occasionally for 10 minutes
or until the chicken's cooked beautifully.
Then stir in one cup, 240 milliliters
of heavy whipping cream,
and reduce for seven to eight more minutes,
stirring occasionally or until thickened.
There's no other way to describe this
other than voluptuous.
Now, seasoned taste with salt
as needed and serve next
to a nice big old chonker of plain steamed rice.
Optionally, you can garnish with cilantro,
but really you don't need the expenditure
if you don't want to.
And look, I'll be honest, this looks beautiful,
but I did have to remove a couple
of things that I'd usually put
in here to keep the cost down,
'cause it but cheaper.
(text sparkles)
That's why we use garam masala.
It has the majority of the flavors that you need,
but if you want it even better,
and you happen to have it on hand,
then I would suggest adding one teaspoon
of ground cumin to the spice mix.
But again, only if you have it on hand.
That being said, can this still taste
as good despite that for the sake of our wallets?
Let's find out.
So we have chicken tikka masala
for this price right here.
(cash register dings)
Let's just taste the damn thing.
(metal clangs)
Woo, wow, this is great.
This is equally as good
as our other chicken tikka masala recipe.
I almost don't want to say it,
'cause all the people are like, yeah, cost benefit.
I'm never gonna make the other one again,
but this one is just as good.
(metal clangs)
Even with the reduction in spices, you get that strong,
deeply flavored spice right to the mouth.
It's creamy, but not too creamy.
Mostly tomato-y, a little bit tart, a little bit spicy,
and you got that umami from the chicken fat.
If I ordered this chicken tikka masala
and they gave it to me for $17,
I'd be like, "Okay,
"but it was only this."
(cash register dings)
But you wanna know what else is cheaper, B-roll.
(upbeat electronic music)